Battery Article (#1255)
wpilibsuite/frc-docs: source/docs/hardware/hardware-basics/robot-battery.rst

.. include:: <isonum.txt>

Robot Battery
=============

The power supply for an FRC\ |reg| robot is a single 12V 18Ah battery. The batteries used for FRC are sealed lead acid batteries capable of meeting the high current demands of an FRC robot.

Battery Connections
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Great care should be taken when handling batteries.  **DO NOT CARRY A BATTERY BY THE CABLES**.  The battery will not be able to provide the same amount of current if the :ref:`connectors are loose <docs/hardware/hardware-basics/preemptive-troubleshooting:Check Battery Connections>`.

.. image:: images/robot-battery/heatshrink.png
   :alt: One terminal of an FRC battery fully covered in heatshrink.

> It is a good idea to secure the battery with either a star washer or a nord lock washer as this will ensure the connection does not move.  This connection must also be wrapped, while some use electrical tape heatshrink that fits over the entire connection is recommended.

Author: I don't think you meant wrapper.  Agree semicolon.  Don't like the "in a pinch", but changed LMK if my change solves this for you!

Battery Longevity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> This battery is rated for about 1200 charge/recharge cycles, but for the high currents FRC subjects it to that lifespan is reduced to about 400 cycles.  These cycles are intended to be relatively limited discharge and deep cycling the battery (running it all the way down) can damage it.

Reviewer: > This battery is rated for about...

I'm not a huge fan of "this", rather would replace it with a name or noun.

Are all FRC batteries equal? Are they all rated for 1200 charge/recharge?

Author: they are not all equal but that is why it was qualified with about.  The point I am trying to make here is that no matter what the published cycle rating is general FRC use and a few other factors significant reduce the amount of cycles the battery can take.

> Batteries last the longest if they are kept fully charged when not it use.  Take care however to not leave them on a trickle charger for an extended period of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Batteries last the longest if they are kept fully charged when not it use.  Take care to not leave them on a trickle charger for an extended period of time.
```

Link to a picture of a trickle charger?

Author: I would worry a link to a charger would show preference for a product.  You can see a charger in the battery cart picture.

> Dropping a battery may compromise its structural integrity and can lead to a bulge or crack in the battery case.  These batteries should be safely disposed of as soon as possible.

Reviewer: Where should teams dispose of these batteries?
...
I believe autozone takes them.

Battery Load Tester
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: images/robot-battery/load-tester.jpg
   :alt: Output screen of a common load tester showing properties of the battery.

> A battery load tester can be used as a quick way to determine the readiness of a battery.  It may provide information like: open-load voltage, voltage under load, internal resistance, and state of charge.  These metrics can be used to quickly confirm that a battery is ready for a match and even possibly help to identify some long term problems with the battery.

Reviewer: What is "open-load voltage"?

Author: no load, nothing connected.  We can further explain if we need to but I think that is common terminology.

> While these batteries are called 12 volt batteries a fully charged battery should read around 13 volts.  Ideal internal resistance should be around 0.015 Ohms.  If a battery gets higher than 0.02 Ohms it is a good idea to consider not using that battery for competition matches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While these batteries are called 12 volt batteries, a fully charged battery should read around ~12-13 volts.  Ideal internal resistance should be around 0.015 Ohms.  If a battery gets higher than 0.02 Ohms it is a good idea to consider not using that battery for competition matches.
```

Perhaps make this a range, as I have seen brand new batteries read 12.1-13.2.

Author: I don't think a brand new battery should read 12.1.  My point was intended to be that the voltage should be much closer to 13 than 12.  If others think this is too narrow I can change but IMO a new battery that doesn't charge to more than 12.5 should be taken back.

Battery Analyzer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: images/robot-battery/cba-graph.jpg
   :alt: Graph from a common battery analyzer plotting volts and AmpHrs for many different batteries.

A battery analyzer is used to give a detailed inspection of battery performance.  It will provide graphs of battery performance over time.  This test takes significant time (roughly two hours) so it is less suited to testing during competition.  It is recommended to run this test on each battery every year to monitor and track its performance.  This will determine how it should be used: matches, practice, testing, or disposed of.

Battery Best Practices
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Teams should purchase several new batteries each year to help keep their batteries fresh.  Elimination matches can require many batteries and because of the quick turn around time batteries may not have enough time to recharge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teams should purchase several new batteries each year to help keep their batteries fresh.  Elimination matches can require many batteries and there may not be enough time to recharge.
```

I don't think the turn-around time part is necessary, short and sweet.

> Teams should purchase several new batteries each year to help keep their batteries fresh.  Elimination matches can require many batteries and because of the quick turn around time batteries may not have enough time to recharge.

Reviewer: Perhaps use bullets in this section to emphasize that each portion is "standalone".

.. include:: <isonum.txt>

Robot Battery
=============

The power supply for an FRC\ |reg| robot is a single 12V 18Ah battery. The batteries used for FRC are sealed lead acid batteries capable of meeting the high current demands of an FRC robot.

Battery Connections
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Great care should be taken when handling batteries.  **DO NOT CARRY A BATTERY BY THE CABLES**.  The battery will not be able to provide the same amount of current if the :ref:`connectors are loose <docs/hardware/hardware-basics/preemptive-troubleshooting:Check Battery Connections>`.

.. image:: images/robot-battery/heatshrink.png
   :alt: One terminal of an FRC battery fully covered in heatshrink.

It is a good idea to secure the battery with either a #10 star washer or a nord lock washer as this will ensure the connection does not move.  This connection must also be wrapped; electrical tape will work, but heatshrink that fits over the entire connection is recommended.

Battery Longevity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> A battery is rated for about 1200 charge/recharge cycles, but for the high currents FRC subjects it to that lifespan is reduced to about 400 cycles.  These cycles are intended to be relatively limited discharge and deep cycling the battery (running it all the way down) can damage it.

Author: would just changing from limited to low fix it?  What do you think it awkward about it?

> A battery is rated for about 1200 charge/recharge cycles, but for the high currents FRC subjects it to that lifespan is reduced to about 400 cycles.  These cycles are intended to be relatively limited discharge and deep cycling the battery (running it all the way down) can damage it.

Reviewer 2: I just find it hard to read haha not sure if I can give a more concrete answer but I will try.

I think there are 2 main points where I am getting tripped up. "relatively limited discharge", as you identified, is one. I think using "low" might help. The other thing that I am catching is the "and". What I think is going on is this sentence might need to be split up with a semicolon, em-dash, or just made into two sentences.

> A battery is rated for about 1200 charge/recharge cycles, but for the high currents FRC subjects it to that lifespan is reduced to about 400 cycles.  These cycles are intended to be relatively limited discharge and deep cycling the battery (running it all the way down) can damage it.

Author: changed to low and broke it into 2 sentences

> Batteries last the longest if they are kept fully charged when not it use.  Take care to not leave them on a trickle charger for an extended period of time.

Author: I have actually recently updated this due to more expert info I have gotten and I was completely wrong.  Most smart chargers it is okay to leave them on there 24/7 even when full.

Battery Analyzer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: images/robot-battery/cba-graph.jpg
   :alt: Graph from a common battery analyzer plotting volts and AmpHrs for many different batteries.

A battery analyzer is used to give a detailed inspection of battery performance.  It will provide graphs of battery performance over time.  This test takes significant time (roughly two hours) so it is less suited to testing during competition.  It is recommended to run this test on each battery every year to monitor and track its performance.  This will determine how it should be used: matches, practice, testing, or disposed of.

Experts agree that at the standard 7.5 amps of load current competition batteries should have at least a 11.5 amp hour rating.  Anything less than that should only be used for practice or other less demanding use cases.

Battery Best Practices
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> * Teams should purchase several new batteries each year to help keep their batteries fresh.  Elimination matches can require many batteries and there may not be enough time to recharge.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Teams should consider purchasing several new batteries each year to help keep their batteries fresh.  Elimination matches can require many batteries and there may not be enough time to recharge.
```

Just softening this up a bit.

.. include:: <isonum.txt>

Robot Battery
=============

The power supply for an FRC\ |reg| robot is a single 12V 18Ah battery. The batteries used for FRC are sealed lead acid batteries capable of meeting the high current demands of an FRC robot.

Battery Connections
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: images/robot-battery/broken-terminal.png
   :alt: One terminal of an FRC battery fully detached from the battery.

> Great care should be taken when handling batteries.  **DO NOT CARRY A BATTERY BY THE CABLES**.  The battery will not be able to provide the same amount of current if the :ref:`connectors are loose <docs/hardware/hardware-basics/preemptive-troubleshooting:Check Battery Connections>`.  The picture above shows a battery that was handled by the cables causing the terminal to be ripped free of the battery.

Reviewer: This paragraph doesn't fit together cleanly. You go from a soft start with "Great care..." to a hard stop. Sentences should build off of each other, or not be in the same paragraph.

Perhaps.
```
Great care should be taken when handling batteries. Improperly handled batteries can be inefficient or even dangerous. One of the most common mistakes that teams do is carrying the batteries by they're cables. This can loosen the connectors. The picture above shows...
```

Notice how my sentences in the above example build on-top of each other instead of sitting alongside each other.

Author: I just move the great care sentence down to where I talk about dropping the battery.  I think it is a better fit there.

.. image:: images/robot-battery/heatshrink.png
   :alt: One terminal of an FRC battery fully covered in heatshrink.

It is a good idea to secure the battery with either a #10 star washer or a nord lock washer as this will ensure the connection does not move.  This connection must also be wrapped; electrical tape will work, but heatshrink that fits over the entire connection is recommended.

Battery Longevity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> A battery is rated for about 1200 charge/recharge cycles, but for the high currents FRC subjects it to that lifespan is reduced to about 400 cycles.  These cycles are intended to be relatively low discharge.  Deep cycling the battery (running it all the way down) can damage it.

Reviewer: > A battery is rated for about 1200 charge/recharge cycles, but for the high currents FRC subjects it to that lifespan is reduced to about 400 cycles.

The portion "FRC subjects it to that lifespan" seems awkward.

Batteries last the longest if they are kept fully charged when not it use.  Batteries drop roughly 0.1V every month of non-use.

.. image:: images/robot-battery/boiled.jpg
   :alt: An FRC battery that was boile by a high current dumb charger.

Most modern chargers can charge the battery indefinitely without additional harm.  The picture above is from a high current dumb charger that boiled the acid until it produced steam and high pressure to open the safety vents.  As such a smart charger is highly recommended.

> Great care should be taken when handling batteries.  Dropping a battery may compromise its structural integrity and can lead to a bulge or crack in the battery case.  These batteries should be safely disposed of as soon as possible.  All retailers that sell batteries like car batteries should be able to dispose of it for you, some may charge a small fee.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Great care should be taken when handling batteries.  Dropping a battery may compromise its structural integrity and can lead to a bulge or crack in the battery case.  These batteries should be safely disposed of as soon as possible.  All retailers that sell batteries, like car batteries, should be able to dispose of it for you. They may charge a small fee.
```

Battery Analyzer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: images/robot-battery/cba-graph.jpg
   :alt: Graph from a common battery analyzer plotting volts and AmpHrs for many different batteries.

A battery analyzer is used to give a detailed inspection of battery performance.  It will provide graphs of battery performance over time.  This test takes significant time (roughly two hours) so it is less suited to testing during competition.  It is recommended to run this test on each battery every year to monitor and track its performance.  This will determine how it should be used: matches, practice, testing, or disposed of.

Experts agree that at the standard 7.5 amps of load current competition batteries should have at least a 11.5 amp hour rating.  Anything less than that should only be used for practice or other less demanding use cases.

Battery Best Practices
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> * Teams should consider purchasing several new batteries each year to help keep their batteries fresh.  Elimination matches can require many batteries and there may not be enough time to recharge.

Reviewer: I know ``*`` is valid syntax for bullets, but could it be replaced with ``-`` for consistency sake.
